---
title: The Business of Community
author_staff_member: bob-stec
date: 2020-07-10 00:00:00
excerpt: How does a business survive in times of crisis?
---

How does a business survive in times of crisis? This is a question asked by every business and business leader as we watch with concern as the Covid-19 unfolds before us. It will be amazing to watch how businesses, presented with the same set of circumstances and timing, deal with this crisis in radically different ways. Same situation, so many different responses. Is there a “correct way” or even a “better, more effective way” to deal with this pandemic? We believe that there is such a way.

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; Our thoughts here go back to a simple but powerful axiom of business 101. “**Give the people what they want/need\!”** This goes beyond simple products and services and goes back to the most basic of human needs of **safety and security.** &nbsp;If you researched consumers today, our guess is that you would find that their “wants and needs” have shifted from goods and services to far more basic desires. Before they consume anything further, they want to feel safe, secure, comfortable and cared for. (see *Maslow's Hierarchy of Needs*).

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; In times of stress, anxiety and uncertainty, consumers do not want to be alone\! Despite the necessary calls for self-isolation required to slow the spread of illness, humans do not want to feel that we are doing this alone. Our desire, yearning and demand is for relationship, community. It is far easier to get through any difficulty when you feel that you are surrounded by likeminded people who share your emotions and your dreams. **That is where the “business of community” comes into play.**

**&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; &nbsp;“Community” is defined as a group of likeminded people who share a deep commonality with one another and allow that commonality to bind them together.&nbsp; What binds them together is greater than what differentiates them. It is authentic, real and felt by both parties.** Every brand has a community, be it large or small. It is in times like we face today that the authenticity of the brand community is on display. If it is authentic, the community comes together (albeit virtually) in the interest of the common good, sets aside the normal commerce of the day and truly helps its members get through the situation. If it is simply a marketing ploy, it will be exposed as such and that community will surely dissolve. Shared values are the glue that holds communities together. Put those values on display and strengthen your brand community.

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; The businesses, retailers and brands who understand this point have already begun to separate themselves from their competitors by engaging their consuming communities with empathy, understanding and ideas. They have shifted the emphasis from transactions to other centered services that play to the basic need for each of us to feel a part of a group with likeminded hopes and fears. The best of these businesses have been practicing the building of their “brand community” on a daily basis rather than just in a time of crisis. Patagonia is a great example of a brand that will thrive in this environment. We are sure that there are many who will excel and come out of this stronger because they simply “**gave the consumers what they wanted/needed”** at the time that they needed it most.

&nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp; &nbsp;&nbsp; History will reward those brands and those companies who, in this crisis, put basic human needs above commerce when that is what the consumer really wants. It really is that simple. Give the consumer what they want when they want it and you win their loyalty and support. Isn’t that what we are called to do every day? If it feels like it matters more today than yesterday, it is because it really does\!

&nbsp;